A significant portion of the national economy is derived from agriculture. Approximately 70% of people in India are farmers. This project uses accurate real-time field data to inform intelligent decision-making and smart control. The Internet of Things The Internet of Things (IoT) is a network of physical objects, or "Things," that are integrated with sensors, software, electronics, and network connectivity to allow them to communicate and gather data. With the ability to sense and control objects remotely over current network infrastructure, the Internet of Things (IoT) opens up new possibilities for more direct integration between the real world and computer-based systems, improving efficiency, accuracy, and financial gains. This project has been found to protect the plants from animals, the environment, and thieves. We can easily monitor the plants by using the Internet of Things. It is intended to use sensors to automate the irrigation system and monitor the crops. It helps farmers increase productivity, cut waste, and maximize agricultural yields. This method will result in more crops being produced while using less water. Farmers can anticipate weather patterns and crop harvests by using pattern forecasting. The sensor allows for the observation of soil moisture. This method applies to biochip transponders on farm animals, electric lights in coastal areas, cars with integrated sensors, DNA analysis equipment for food, pathogen, or environmental monitoring, and field-operating devices that support firefighters conducting search and rescue missions. Utilizing a variety of already available technologies, these gadgets gather valuable data and then autonomously transfer it between other devices.
